if anyone is found slain lying in the
field in the land which the Lord your
God is giving you to possess and it is
not known who killed him in your elders
and your judges shall go out and measure
the distance from the slain man to the
surrounding cities and it shall be that
the elders of the city nearest to the
slain man will take a heifer which has
not been worked and which has not pulled
with the yoke the elders of that city
shall bring the heifer down to a valley
with flowing water which is neither
plowed North Zone and they shall break
the heifers net there in the valley then
the priests the sons of Levi shall come
near for the Lord your God has chosen
them to minister to him and to bless in
the name of the Lord by their word every
controversy in every assault shall be
settled
and all the elders of that city nearest
to the slain man shall wash their hands
over the heifer whose neck was broken in
the valley then they shall answer and
say our hands have not shed this blood
nor have our eyes seen it provide
atonement O Lord for your people Israel
whom you have redeemed and do not lay
innocent blood for the charge of your
people Israel
and atonement shall be provided on their
behalf for the blood so you shall put
away the guilt of innocent blood from
among you when you do what is right in
the sight of the Lord
when you go out to war against your
enemies and the Lord your God delivers
them into your hand and you take them
captive and you see among the captives a
beautiful woman and desire her and would
take her for your wife then you shall
bring her home to your house and she
shall shave her head and trim her nails
she shall put off the clothes of her
captivity remain in your house and mourn
her father and her mother a full month
after that you may go into her and be
her husband and she shall be your wife
and it shall be if you have no delight
in her then you shall set her free but
you certainly shall not sell her for
money
you shall not treat her brutally because
you have humbled her if a man has two
wives one loved and the other unloved
and they have borne him children both
the loved and the unloved and if the
firstborn son is of her who is unloved
then it shall be on the day he
bequeathed his possessions to his sons
that he must not bestow first
born status on the son of the loved wife
in preference to the son of the unloved
the true firstborn but he shall
acknowledge the son of the unloved wife
as the firstborn by giving him a double
portion of all that he has or he is the
beginning of his strength the right of
the firstborn is his if a man has a
stubborn and rebellious son who will not
obey the voice of his father or the
voice of his mother and who when they
have chastened him will not heed them
then his father and his mother shall
take hold of him and bring him out to
the elders of his City to the gate of
his City and they shall say to the
elders of his City this son of ours is
stubborn and rebellious he will not obey
our voice he is a glutton and a drunkard
then all the men of his City shall stone
him to death with stones so you shall
put away the evil from among you and all
Israel shall hear and fear if a man has
committed a sin deserving of death and
he is put to death and you hang him
on a tree his body shall not remain
overnight on the tree but you shall
surely bury him that day so that you do
not defile the land which the Lord your
God is giving you as an inheritance for
he who is hanged is a cursed of God